docs/community/contributions.md, before:

<script async defer src="https://buttons.github.io/buttons.js"></script>

# Contribution Guidelines

**Kyuubi** is an [Apache License v2.0](https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/blob/master/LICENSE) open source software.

Contributing to Kyuubi including source code, documents, tests e.t.c. means that you agree to the Apache License v2.0.

- Better to search the issue history first before reporting an <a class="github-button" href="https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/issues" data-color-scheme="no-preference: light; light: dark; dark: light;" data-icon="octicon-issue-opened" data-show-count="true" aria-label="Issue NetEase/kyuubi on GitHub">Issue</a>
- Better to create an <a class="github-button" href="https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/issues" data-color-scheme="no-preference: light; light: dark; dark: light;" data-icon="octicon-issue-opened" data-show-count="true" aria-label="Issue NetEase/kyuubi on GitHub">Issue</a> to describe the feature or bug first before make a pull request.
- Better to use English for world widely understanding.
- Ask us anything 

Before you start, please read the [Code of Conduct](http://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html) carefully, familiarize yourself with it and refer to it whenever you need it.

## Creating a Pull Request

When creating a Pull Request, you will automatically get the template below.

Fulfilling it thoroughly can improve the speed of the review process.

```
<!--
Thanks for sending a pull request!

Here are some tips for you:
  1. If this is your first time, please read our contributor guidelines:
     https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/community/contributions.html
-->

### _Which issue are you going to fix?_
<!--
Replace ${ID} below with the actual issue id from
https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/issues,
so that the issue will be linked and automatically closed after merging
-->

Fixes #${ID}

### _Why are the changes needed?_
<!--
Please clarify why the changes are needed. For instance,
  1. If you add a feature, you can talk about the user case of it.
  2. If you fix a bug, you can clarify why it is a bug.
-->


### _How was this patch tested?_
- [ ] Add some test cases that check the changes thoroughly including negative and positive cases if possible

- [ ] Add screenshots for manual tests if appropriate

- [ ] [Run test](https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tools/testing.html#running-tests) locally before make a pull request

```

Commit message:

[KYUUBI #533] improve contribution guidelines
<!--
Thanks for sending a pull request!

Here are some tips for you:
  1. If this is your first time, please read our contributor guidelines: https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/community/contributions.html
  2. If the PR is related to an issue in https://github.com/yaooqinn/kyuubi/issues, add '[KYUUBI #XXXX]' in your PR title, e.g., '[KYUUBI #XXXX] Your PR title ...'.
  3. If the PR is unfinished, add '[WIP]' in your PR title, e.g., '[WIP][KYUUBI #XXXX] Your PR title ...'.
-->

### _Why are the changes needed?_
<!--
Please clarify why the changes are needed. For instance,
  1. If you add a feature, you can talk about the use case of it.
  2. If you fix a bug, you can clarify why it is a bug.
-->
Add some git and github steps at contribution guidelines docs. Assuming most user in github has not experience with submit pull request. And this docs make things easy for new developer.

Closes #533 from ulysses-you/improve-contribution-guidelines.

Closes #533

ce116d2 [ulysses-you] nit
d70b322 [ulysses-you] fix
70fb548 [ulysses-you] docs

Authored-by: ulysses-you <ulyssesyou18@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: ulysses-you <ulyssesyou18@gmail.com>

docs/community/contributions.md, after:

<script async defer src="https://buttons.github.io/buttons.js"></script>

# Contribution Guidelines

**Kyuubi** is an [Apache License v2.0](https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/blob/master/LICENSE) open source software.

Contributing to Kyuubi including source code, documents, tests e.t.c. means that you agree to the Apache License v2.0.

- Better to search the issue history first before reporting an <a class="github-button" href="https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/issues" data-color-scheme="no-preference: light; light: dark; dark: light;" data-icon="octicon-issue-opened" data-show-count="true" aria-label="Issue NetEase/kyuubi on GitHub">Issue</a>
- Better to create an <a class="github-button" href="https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/issues" data-color-scheme="no-preference: light; light: dark; dark: light;" data-icon="octicon-issue-opened" data-show-count="true" aria-label="Issue NetEase/kyuubi on GitHub">Issue</a> to describe the feature or bug first before make a pull request.
- Better to use English for world widely understanding.
- Ask us anything 

Before you start, please read the [Code of Conduct](http://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html) carefully, familiarize yourself with it and refer to it whenever you need it.

## Prepare github environment
If you are new to submit a Pull Request, the follow steps are helpful to you.

1. An available [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads), you can run `git version` if you not sure you have
2. Fork [Kyuubi](https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi) on github, now you have a cloned Kyuubi repo 
3. Clone your Kyuubi repo with cmd `git clone https://github.com/${yourname}/kyuubi.git`
4. Create a new branch with cmd `git checkout -b test-branch`
5. Modify the code you want
6. Commit and push code to your Kyuubi repo with commd `git commit -am "comment"; git push test-branch test-branch`
7. Back to [Kyuubi](https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi), you can see a banner about `new pull request`
8. Now we can create a pull request to Kyuubi

## Creating a Pull Request

When creating a Pull Request, you will automatically get the template below.

Fulfilling it thoroughly can improve the speed of the review process.

```
<!--
Thanks for sending a pull request!

Here are some tips for you:
  1. If this is your first time, please read our contributor guidelines:
     https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/community/contributions.html
-->

### _Which issue are you going to fix?_
<!--
Replace ${ID} below with the actual issue id from
https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/issues,
so that the issue will be linked and automatically closed after merging
-->

Fixes #${ID}

### _Why are the changes needed?_
<!--
Please clarify why the changes are needed. For instance,
  1. If you add a feature, you can talk about the user case of it.
  2. If you fix a bug, you can clarify why it is a bug.
-->


### _How was this patch tested?_
- [ ] Add some test cases that check the changes thoroughly including negative and positive cases if possible

- [ ] Add screenshots for manual tests if appropriate

- [ ] [Run test](https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tools/testing.html#running-tests) locally before make a pull request

```
