docs/sql/functions.md, before:

<!--
 - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 - contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 - this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 - The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 - (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 - the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 -
 -   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 -
 - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 - distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 - WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 - See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 - limitations under the License.
 -->

<!-- DO NOT MODIFY THIS FILE DIRECTLY, IT IS AUTO GENERATED BY [org.apache.kyuubi.engine.spark.udf.KyuubiDefinedFunctionSuite] -->

<div align=center>

![](../imgs/kyuubi_logo.png)

</div>

# Auxiliary SQL Functions for Spark SQL

Kyuubi provides several auxiliary SQL functions as supplement to Spark's [Built-in Functions](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/sql/index.html#built-in-functions)

Name | Description | Return Type | Since
--- | --- | --- | ---
kyuubi_version | Return the version of Kyuubi Server | string | 1.3.0
system_user | Return the system user name for the associated query engine | string | 1.3.0

Commit message:

[KYUUBI #659] Add UDF engine_name
<!--
Thanks for sending a pull request!

Here are some tips for you:
  1. If this is your first time, please read our contributor guidelines: https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/community/contributions.html
  2. If the PR is related to an issue in https://github.com/NetEase/kyuubi/issues, add '[KYUUBI #XXXX]' in your PR title, e.g., '[KYUUBI #XXXX] Your PR title ...'.
  3. If the PR is unfinished, add '[WIP]' in your PR title, e.g., '[WIP][KYUUBI #XXXX] Your PR title ...'.
-->

### _Why are the changes needed?_
<!--
Please clarify why the changes are needed. For instance,
  1. If you add a feature, you can talk about the use case of it.
  2. If you fix a bug, you can clarify why it is a bug.
-->
Add UDF engine_name to show the runtime information about execution engine

### _How was this patch tested?_
- [ ] Add some test cases that check the changes thoroughly including negative and positive cases if possible

- [ ] Add screenshots for manual tests if appropriate

- [ ] [Run test](https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tools/testing.html#running-tests) locally before make a pull request

Closes #747 from zhaomin1423/udf.

Closes #659

8c3b3c16 [Min Zhao] Merge branch 'master' into udf
f184a661 [Min Zhao] Merge branch 'master' into udf
9ea0c190 [Min Zhao] get appName from driver side
09f07523 [Min Zhao] get conf by SparkEnv.get.conf in the engine_name udf
6c000784 [Min Zhao] update the description of the engine_name udf
63ef2762 [Min Zhao] update class to org.apache.kyuubi.engine.spark.udf.KyuubiDefinedFunctionSuite in functions.md
db02884c [Min Zhao] [KYUUBI #659] Add UDF engine_name

Lead-authored-by: Min Zhao <zhaomin1423@163.com>
Co-authored-by: Min Zhao <49054376+zhaomin1423@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Cheng Pan <chengpan@apache.org>
(cherry picked from commit 8bab5b8d6a05b33b8ad474811f89299860db60f4)
Signed-off-by: Cheng Pan <chengpan@apache.org>

docs/sql/functions.md, after:

<!--
 - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 - contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 - this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 - The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 - (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 - the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 -
 -   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 -
 - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 - distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 - WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 - See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 - limitations under the License.
 -->

<!-- DO NOT MODIFY THIS FILE DIRECTLY, IT IS AUTO GENERATED BY [org.apache.kyuubi.engine.spark.udf.KyuubiDefinedFunctionSuite] -->

<div align=center>

![](../imgs/kyuubi_logo.png)

</div>

# Auxiliary SQL Functions for Spark SQL

Kyuubi provides several auxiliary SQL functions as supplement to Spark's [Built-in Functions](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/sql/index.html#built-in-functions)

Name | Description | Return Type | Since
--- | --- | --- | ---
kyuubi_version | Return the version of Kyuubi Server | string | 1.3.0
engine_name | Return the spark application name for the associated query engine | string | 1.3.0
system_user | Return the system user name for the associated query engine | string | 1.3.0
