docs/deployment/high_availability_guide.md, before:

<!--
 - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 - contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 - this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 - The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 - (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 - the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 -
 -   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 -
 - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 - distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 - WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 - See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 - limitations under the License.
 -->

# Kyuubi High Availability Guide

As an enterprise-class ad-hoc SQL query service built on top of [Apache Spark](http://spark.apache.org/), Kyuubi takes high availability(HA) as a major characteristic, aiming to ensure an agreed level of service availability, such as a higher than normal period of uptime.

Running Kyuubi in HA mode is to use groups of computers or containers that support SQL query service on Kyuubi that can be reliably utilized with a minimum amount of down-time. Kyuubi operates by using [Apache ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) to harness redundant service instances in groups that provide continuous service when one or more components fail.

Without HA, if a server crashes, Kyuubi will be unavailable until the crashed server is fixed. With HA, this situation will be remedied by hardware/software faults auto detecting, and immediately another Kyuubi service instance will be ready to serve without requiring human intervention. 

## Load Balance Mode

Load balancing aims to optimize all Kyuubi service units usage, maximize throughput, minimize response time, and avoid overload of a single unit. Using multiple Kyuubi service units with load balancing instead of a single unit may increase reliability and availability through redundancy. 

![](../imgs/ha.png)

With Hive JDBC Driver, a client can specify service discovery mode in JDBC connection string, i.e. `serviceDiscoveryMode=zooKeeper;` and set `zooKeeperNameSpace=kyuubiserver;`, then it can randomly pick one of the Kyuubi service uris from the specified ZooKeeper address in the `/kyuubiserver` path.

When we set `kyuubi.ha.enabled` to `true`, load balance mode is activated by default. Please make sure that you specify the correct ZooKeeper address via `kyuubi.ha.zookeeper.quorum` and `kyuubi.ha.zookeeper.client.port`.

## Configuring High Availability

This section describes how to configure high availability. These configurations in the following table can be treat like normal Spark properties by setting them in `spark-defaults.conf` file or via `--conf` parameter in server starting scripts.

Key | Default | Meaning | Since
--- | --- | --- | ---
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.acl\.enabled|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>false</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>Set to true if the zookeeper ensemble is kerberized</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.connection\.base\.retry<br>\.wait|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>1000</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>Initial amount of time to wait between retries to the zookeeper ensemble</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.connection\.max<br>\.retries|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>3</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>Max retry times for connecting to the zookeeper ensemble</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.connection\.max\.retry<br>\.wait|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>30000</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>Max amount of time to wait between retries for BOUNDED_EXPONENTIAL_BACKOFF policy can reach, or max time until elapsed for UNTIL_ELAPSED policy to connect the zookeeper ensemble</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.connection\.retry<br>\.policy|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>EXPONENTIAL_BACKOFF</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>The retry policy for connecting to the zookeeper ensemble, all candidates are: <ul><li>ONE_TIME</li><li> N_TIME</li><li> EXPONENTIAL_BACKOFF</li><li> BOUNDED_EXPONENTIAL_BACKOFF</li><li> UNTIL_ELAPSED</li></ul></div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.connection\.timeout|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>15000</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>The timeout(ms) of creating the connection to the zookeeper ensemble</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.namespace|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>kyuubi</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>The root directory for the service to deploy its instance uri. Additionally, it will creates a -[username] suffixed root directory for each application</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.quorum|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'></div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>The connection string for the zookeeper ensemble</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>
kyuubi\.ha\.zookeeper<br>\.session\.timeout|<div style='width: 80pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>60000</div>|<div style='width: 200pt;word-wrap: break-word;white-space: normal'>The timeout(ms) of a connected session to be idled</div>|<div style='width: 20pt'>1.0.0</div>

Commit message:

[KYUUBI #1320] Fix HA documents
<!--
Thanks for sending a pull request!

Here are some tips for you:
  1. If this is your first time, please read our contributor guidelines: https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/community/contributions.html
  2. If the PR is related to an issue in https://github.com/apache/incubator-kyuubi/issues, add '[KYUUBI #XXXX]' in your PR title, e.g., '[KYUUBI #XXXX] Your PR title ...'.
  3. If the PR is unfinished, add '[WIP]' in your PR title, e.g., '[WIP][KYUUBI #XXXX] Your PR title ...'.
-->

### _Why are the changes needed?_
<!--
Please clarify why the changes are needed. For instance,
  1. If you add a feature, you can talk about the use case of it.
  2. If you fix a bug, you can clarify why it is a bug.
-->

1. the default value of `kyuubi.ha.zookeeper.namespace` is `kyuubi`
2. the beeline's variable `zooKeeperNamespace` is case-sensitive
3. how to configure kyuubi ha

### _How was this patch tested?_
- [ ] Add some test cases that check the changes thoroughly including negative and positive cases if possible

- [ ] Add screenshots for manual tests if appropriate

- [ ] [Run test](https://kyuubi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/develop_tools/testing.html#running-tests) locally before make a pull request

Closes #1320 from cfmcgrady/ha-bug.

Closes #1320

16f56377 [Fu Chen] add ha configurations link
7acee980 [Fu Chen] update high_availability_guide.md
bfcab300 [Fu Chen] update high_availability_guide.md
7d9f88cb [Fu Chen] Revert "add conf kyuubi.ha.enabled"
d6874800 [Fu Chen] Revert "update docs"
b31d9ca8 [Fu Chen] Revert "default false"
343bae44 [Fu Chen] default false
3a4934e8 [Fu Chen] update docs
7acf3d52 [Fu Chen] add conf kyuubi.ha.enabled
936d6e7d [Fu Chen] update high_availability_guide.md

Authored-by: Fu Chen <cfmcgrady@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Kent Yao <yao@apache.org>

docs/deployment/high_availability_guide.md, after:

<!--
 - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 - contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 - this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 - The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 - (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 - the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 -
 -   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 -
 - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 - distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 - WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 - See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 - limitations under the License.
 -->

# Kyuubi High Availability Guide

As an enterprise-class ad-hoc SQL query service built on top of [Apache Spark](http://spark.apache.org/), Kyuubi takes high availability(HA) as a major characteristic, aiming to ensure an agreed level of service availability, such as a higher than normal period of uptime.

Running Kyuubi in HA mode is to use groups of computers or containers that support SQL query service on Kyuubi that can be reliably utilized with a minimum amount of down-time. Kyuubi operates by using [Apache ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) to harness redundant service instances in groups that provide continuous service when one or more components fail.

Without HA, if a server crashes, Kyuubi will be unavailable until the crashed server is fixed. With HA, this situation will be remedied by hardware/software faults auto detecting, and immediately another Kyuubi service instance will be ready to serve without requiring human intervention. 

## Load Balance Mode

Load balancing aims to optimize all Kyuubi service units usage, maximize throughput, minimize response time, and avoid overload of a single unit. Using multiple Kyuubi service units with load balancing instead of a single unit may increase reliability and availability through redundancy. 

![](../imgs/ha.png)

With Hive JDBC Driver, a client can specify service discovery mode in JDBC connection string, i.e. `serviceDiscoveryMode=zooKeeper;` and set `zooKeeperNamespace=kyuubi;`, then it can randomly pick one of the Kyuubi service uris from the specified ZooKeeper address in the `/kyuubi` path.

When we specify the ZooKeeper address via `kyuubi.ha.zookeeper.quorum`, load balance mode is activated by default. Please make sure that you specify the correct ZooKeeper address via `kyuubi.ha.zookeeper.quorum` and `kyuubi.ha.zookeeper.client.port`. For more details, see [Introduction to the Kyuubi Configurations System](./setting.html#ha)
